what you're looking at here is a wood
window sill so this would be a
wood-framed sill with trim around a
vinyl window so problem with wood if
you've watched any of our other videos
in the past is that it can get wet and
eventually suffer from damage the arrow
is pointing to a water stain these water
stains are usually easy to see and of
course there is also a gap in between
the bottom trim and the window sill the
window sill is angled for a reason that
is to allow any water to flow off of it
usually about a five to a 10-degree
angle eight degrees maybe something like
that works out great and then of course
we have another angle of the water stain
here anytime you see a stain like this
discoloration in any wood wouldn't be a
bad idea to take a look closer look and
see if there is anything that would be
leading to contributing to the stain so
just something to think about now
another thing and I will try to make a
video on it in the future is at the
bottom of a windowsill you can always
put a drip cut in and again this would
run the entire length underneath the
sill and you can do it with a skill saw
or a circular saw you just simply go
maybe about three eighths of an inch
from the outside bottom of the window
sill and cut a line parallel to the
window sill be on the outside this will
allow water to leak over the outside
edge and then straight off of the sill
the drip cut actually stops the water
from flowing back water will actually
roll back at an angle trust me if the
surface is flat you're going to have
water rolling right on back so it's hard
to imagine but water will
roll back underneath the sill and
without that drip cut so something to
think about now the water stain here
could also become from water leaking
around the outside of the wood window
trim and then of course leaking you know
running across and leaking down there so
again something like this you know the
gap in between the bottom trim and the
window sill needs to be filled you know
this is another area that could be a
problem water could be leaking into the
house so anytime you see a water stain
do a little more investigating and see
what the problem is I thought of another
thing I apologize for making this video
too long but sometimes there's never
enough information these water stains
could be caused from from a variety of
different reasons you can have dirt
around the window and then of course the
dirt sustaining you can just actually
wash the stain off sometimes if not make
sure that you paint these areas and try
to avoid having these stains get larger
because a lot of times if you do have a
stain as a reason why you know it's
getting behind the paint or the woods
getting wet somehow and and causing the
stain it's not a good thing paint this
and maintain these areas to eliminate
the possibility of wood rot or any type
of water damage in the future sometimes
little maintenance could save you a lot
of money in repairs in the future